# Airline_Reservation_System
•	The project aims at developing an online application of airline reservation system that helps the user to book the flight tickets online without visiting the booking counters.The system allows the airline passenger to search for flights that are available between the two travel cities, namely the “Departure city” and “Arrival city” for a particular departure and arrival dates. The system displays all the flight’s details such as flight no, name, price and duration of journey etc.
•	The project includes a UI, also known as GUI (Graphical User Interface), which consists of buttons, text fields, and other graphical elements used to interact with the user. The GUI will be built using the Java Swing library.
•	Java Swing is a library similar to Java util, which provides various features and functionality, which are used for building the project’s front end. Java Swing includes components such as JFrame, JButton, and JPanel, which will be used to build the project's front end.
•	The data structuring and creating a database are important for implementing this project’s backend and this is done by MySQL Workbench.
•	A database with name Airline project database is created with four tables admin, customer, flight and ticket , which stores the details entered by the users.
•	A bridge of driver mechanism is required to connect the project’s frontend and backend. JDBC driver is used to connect Java with MySQL for this project. The methods like Connection, prepared statement, and driver are collection of interface of JDBC driver and these are used in opening a database connection.
•	Auto-generated customer IDs with the prefix "CS" and flight IDs with the prefix "FL" in the database. SQL queries are used to perform the operations related to data over the database.
•	This project includes different pages to perform various functionalities like Login page(allows us to login to the platform by using the username and password), Add customer(allows the user to add his details into the database and he will receive a autogenerated customer ID) , Search customer(the user will be able access his details by using the customer ID) , Add flight (Flight details can be updated into the database) , Book flight(the user will the able to book the flight ticket) , Add admin(the user will be able to add the admin details) , Get ticket(the user can get the ticket details by having the ticket ID).

